# symmetrical-potato
Analyzing the effect of ChatGPT on Reuters News Articles

This is the code for a project I did in one of my masters courses. The goal was to scrape news articles written about various companies to see if there was an increase in the similarity of vocabulary after the advent of ChatGPT. While building a AI-generated-text-detector was beyond the scope of the project, I wanted to see if there was a difference in the variation of vocabulary used in articles about a given company for the three months leading up to ChatGPT's launch and the three months after. The thought being that journalists might be using the AI to help write the news articles and if so, we would see an increase in how similar the texts are.

There are two ipynb files - the first one uses Selinium to scrape Reuters articles for six selected companies in the 6 month time frame. Reuters was chosen because it isn't paywalled, but a free account is needed to access more than a handful of articles. The code first identifies the links to each article by company and then loops through the artilces and collects the text and saves the relevant company, date of article, article text, and link to a data frame that is then saved as a .csv file.

The second ipynb contains the analysis. Using the NLTK package in python, I randomly selected 30 articles in each time frame for each company and built a cosine similarty matrix for the 30 articles. 30 was chosen as the sample size for a few reasons: 1) heatmaps generated from the data were legible but not crammed 2) the minimum number of articles in the time period for any of the companies was 39 so that was the hard limit for this dataset and 3) while a larger sample size would be more robust, n=30 gives a decent approximation when we conduct statistical analysis on the data.

The analysis showed that the average cosine similarity scores between the time periods was not significantly different, but the proportion of highly similar articles was significantly higher for 5 of the 6 selected companies (only 4 of th 6 if the threshold was set to 0.5, but very close on the 5th). While this is not proof that journalists are using ChatGPT to write news articles, it is strong enough evidence that further analysis is warrented and that readers may want to exercise additional due diligence in the meantime.
